README.md, before:

hubitat_tile_mover � adjust a Hubitat Dashboard layout by operating on the "tiles" list (row/col only), preserving everything else unchanged.

Accepted input JSON shapes (3 levels):
  A) Full:    { ..., "tiles": [ {...}, ... ], ... }
  B) Minimal: { "tiles": [ {...}, ... ] }
  C) Bare:    [ {...}, ... ]

Import (input) (only one; default is clipboard):
  --import:clipboard
  --import:file <filename>
  --import:hub  (requires --url <dashboard local url)

Output destinations (repeatable; default is clipboard if none specified):
  --output:terminal
  --output:clipboard
  --output:file <filename>
  --output:hub (requires --url <dashboard local url)

Output format (single choice; default matches the input level; cannot exceed input):
  --output_format:full       (Full dashboard JSON)
  --output_format:minimal    ({"tiles":[...]}) (cannot be used with --output:hub)
  --output_format:bare       ([...]) (cannot be used with --output:hub)

Undo Actions (from output saved directly to hub)
  --undo_last (restores changes saved to hub by previous run)
  --confirm_keep (prompts to keep changes saved directly to hub)

LAYOUT ACTIONS (mutually exclusive; choose at most ONE per run)

  MOVE EXISTING TILES

    Insert empty rows / columns:
      --insert_rows COUNT AT_ROW
      --insert_cols COUNT AT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --col_range/--row_range

    Move tiles:
      --move_cols START_COL END_COL DEST_START_COL
      --move_rows START_ROW END_ROW DEST_START_ROW
      --move_range SRC_TOP_ROW SRC_LEFT_COL SRC_BOTTOM_ROW SRC_RIGHT_COL DEST_TOP_ROW DEST_LEFT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --allow_overlap, --skip_overlap

  ADD TILES

    Copy / duplicate existing tiles (within the input layout):
      --copy_cols START_COL END_COL DEST_START_COL
      --copy_rows START_ROW END_ROW DEST_START_ROW
      --copy_range SRC_TOP_ROW SRC_LEFT_COL SRC_BOTTOM_ROW SRC_RIGHT_COL DEST_TOP_ROW DEST_LEFT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --allow_overlap, --skip_overlap, --ignore_css

    Merge / import tiles from another layout:
      --merge_source <filename>
      --merge_cols START_COL END_COL DEST_START_COL
      --merge_rows START_ROW END_ROW DEST_START_ROW
      --merge_range SRC_TOP_ROW SRC_LEFT_COL SRC_BOTTOM_ROW SRC_RIGHT_COL DEST_TOP_ROW DEST_LEFT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --allow_overlap, --skip_overlap, --ignore_css

  REMOVE TILES

    Delete rows / columns (removes tiles AND shifts following tiles up/left):
      --delete_rows START_ROW END_ROW
      --delete_cols START_COL END_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --row_range/--col_range, --cleanup_css, --force

    Clear tiles (removes tiles but does NOT shift anything):
      --clear_rows START_ROW END_ROW
      --clear_cols START_COL END_COL
      --clear_range TOP_ROW LEFT_COL BOTTOM_ROW RIGHT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --cleanup_css, --force

    Crop (remove everything OUTSIDE the kept range):
      --crop_to_rows START_ROW END_ROW
      --crop_to_cols START_COL END_COL
      --crop_to_range TOP_ROW LEFT_COL BOTTOM_ROW RIGHT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --cleanup_css, --force
      Notes: the kept range must contain at least one tile; at least one tile must remain.

    Prune (remove everything EXCEPT matching tiles):
      --prune_except_ids <comma-separated tile ids>
      --prune_except_devices <comma-separated device ids>
      Modifiers: --cleanup_css, --force
      Notes: at least one tile must match the provided ids/devices; at least one tile must remain.


ADDITIONAL ACTIONS (can be used alone or combined with the single layout action)

  Trim (performed after the layout action, before sorting):
    --trim                 (same as --trim:top,left)
    --trim:top
    --trim:left
    --trim:top,left

  Sort (only applied if --sort is present; affects output order only):
    --sort                 (same as --sort:irc)
    --sort:<SPEC>

    Keys: i=id, r=row, c=col
    Default SPEC: irc
    Prefix a key with '-' to sort that key descending (example: --sort:-i r c)
    Missing keys are appended in i,r,c order (ascending)

  Scrub orphan CSS (performed last, after sorting):
    --scrub_css
      Finds tile-specific CSS rules in customCSS that reference tile ids not present as tiles.
      Prompts before removal unless --force is specified.
      If --scrub_css is NOT specified and orphans are detected, the program warns how many were found.


MODIFIERS

  Selection / overlap:
    --include_overlap
      Default selection: tiles are selected when their top-left (row,col) is inside the source/range.
      With --include_overlap: tiles are also selected when their span intersects the source/range
      (span uses rowSpan/colSpan; missing span defaults to 1x1).

  Insert/Delete range filters (limit which tiles are affected):
    --col_range <start_col> <end_col>     (only with --insert_rows and --delete_rows)
    --row_range <start_row> <end_row>     (only with --insert_cols and --delete_cols)
      example: --insert_rows 5 10 --col_range 2 7 ==> insert 5 rows at row 10 only in columns 2-7


  Destination conflict policy (move/copy/merge only):
    --allow_overlap
      Proceed even if destination conflicts exist.
    --skip_overlap
      Skip only the tiles that would conflict in the destination.
    default (neither set):
      Abort before changing anything if any destination conflicts exist.

  Confirmation suppression:
    --force
      Skip interactive confirmations when tiles or CSS rules would be removed.


CSS OPTIONS

  --ignore_css
      When copying/merging tiles, do not create/merge tile-specific CSS rules for new tile ids.

  --cleanup_css
      When tiles are removed (delete/clear/crop/prune), attempt to remove tile-specific CSS rules for those tile ids.
      Prompts before removal unless --force is specified.

  Note: Tile id assignment when copying/merging:
        New tile ids are assigned sequentially starting at:
            1 + max(highest existing tile id, highest tile id referenced in customCSS)
        This prevents newly created tiles from accidentally reusing ids that still have orphan CSS rules.


DIAGNOSTICS

  --quiet                  Suppress the final one-line summary
  --verbose                Planned actions summary to STDERR
  --debug                  Per-tile action logs to STDERR


RC 21 adds hub direct import / output, undo

Commit message:

RC48: maps + help updates + hub features

README.md, after:

hubitat_tile_mover � adjust a Hubitat Dashboard layout by operating on the "tiles" list (row/col only), preserving everything else unchanged.

Accepted input JSON shapes (3 levels):
  A) Full:    { ..., "tiles": [ {...}, ... ], ... }
  B) Minimal: { "tiles": [ {...}, ... ] }
  C) Bare:    [ {...}, ... ]

Import (input) (only one; default is clipboard):
  --import:clipboard
  --import:file <filename>
  --import:hub  (requires --url <dashboard local url)

Output destinations (repeatable; default is clipboard if none specified):
  --output:terminal
  --output:clipboard
  --output:file <filename>
  --output:hub (requires --url <dashboard local url)

Output format (single choice; default matches the input level; cannot exceed input):
  --output_format:full       (Full dashboard JSON)
  --output_format:minimal    ({"tiles":[...]}) (cannot be used with --output:hub)
  --output_format:bare       ([...]) (cannot be used with --output:hub)

Undo Actions (from output saved directly to hub)
  --undo_last (restores changes saved to hub by previous run)
  --confirm_keep (prompts to keep changes saved directly to hub)
  --lock_backup (keep existing undo file as current restore point)
  Note: undo files are maintained per dashboard.


LAYOUT ACTIONS (mutually exclusive; choose at most ONE per run)

  MOVE EXISTING TILES

    Insert empty rows / columns:
      --insert_rows COUNT AT_ROW
      --insert_cols COUNT AT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --col_range/--row_range

    Move tiles:
      --move_cols START_COL END_COL DEST_START_COL
      --move_rows START_ROW END_ROW DEST_START_ROW
      --move_range SRC_TOP_ROW SRC_LEFT_COL SRC_BOTTOM_ROW SRC_RIGHT_COL DEST_TOP_ROW DEST_LEFT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --allow_overlap, --skip_overlap

  ADD TILES

    Copy / duplicate existing tiles (within the input layout):
      --copy_cols START_COL END_COL DEST_START_COL
      --copy_rows START_ROW END_ROW DEST_START_ROW
      --copy_range SRC_TOP_ROW SRC_LEFT_COL SRC_BOTTOM_ROW SRC_RIGHT_COL DEST_TOP_ROW DEST_LEFT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --allow_overlap, --skip_overlap, --ignore_css

    Merge / import tiles from another layout:
      --merge_source <filename>
      --merge_cols START_COL END_COL DEST_START_COL
      --merge_rows START_ROW END_ROW DEST_START_ROW
      --merge_range SRC_TOP_ROW SRC_LEFT_COL SRC_BOTTOM_ROW SRC_RIGHT_COL DEST_TOP_ROW DEST_LEFT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --allow_overlap, --skip_overlap, --ignore_css

  REMOVE TILES

    Delete rows / columns (removes tiles AND shifts following tiles up/left):
      --delete_rows START_ROW END_ROW
      --delete_cols START_COL END_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --row_range/--col_range, --cleanup_css, --force

    Clear tiles (removes tiles but does NOT shift anything):
      --clear_rows START_ROW END_ROW
      --clear_cols START_COL END_COL
      --clear_range TOP_ROW LEFT_COL BOTTOM_ROW RIGHT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --cleanup_css, --force

    Crop (remove everything OUTSIDE the kept range):
      --crop_to_rows START_ROW END_ROW
      --crop_to_cols START_COL END_COL
      --crop_to_range TOP_ROW LEFT_COL BOTTOM_ROW RIGHT_COL
      Modifiers: --include_overlap, --cleanup_css, --force
      Notes: the kept range must contain at least one tile; at least one tile must remain.

    Prune (remove everything EXCEPT matching tiles):
      --prune_except_ids <comma-separated tile ids>
      --prune_except_devices <comma-separated device ids>
      Modifiers: --cleanup_css, --force
      Notes: at least one tile must match the provided ids/devices; at least one tile must remain.


ADDITIONAL ACTIONS (can be used alone or combined with the single layout action)

  Trim (performed after the layout action, before sorting):
    --trim                 (same as --trim:top,left)
    --trim:top
    --trim:left
    --trim:top,left

  Sort (only applied if --sort is present; affects output order only):
    --sort                 (same as --sort:irc)
    --sort:<SPEC>

    Keys: i=id, r=row, c=col
    Default SPEC: irc
    Prefix a key with '-' to sort that key descending (example: --sort:-i r c)
    Missing keys are appended in i,r,c order (ascending)

  Scrub orphan CSS (performed last, after sorting):
    --scrub_css
      Finds tile-specific CSS rules in customCSS that reference tile ids not present as tiles.
      Prompts before removal unless --force is specified.
      If --scrub_css is NOT specified and orphans are detected, the program warns how many were found.

  Layout Maps: (Show in terminal before and after layouts, movement conflicts)
    --show_map                 (print BEFORE / OUTCOME maps)
    --map_focus full|conflict  (default: full; conflict maps only)
    Note: Show map can be used without an action to display the current layout of the import dashboard.

MODIFIERS

  Selection / overlap:
    --include_overlap
      Default selection: tiles are selected when their top-left (row,col) is inside the source/range.
      With --include_overlap: tiles are also selected when their span intersects the source/range
      (span uses rowSpan/colSpan; missing span defaults to 1x1).

  Insert/Delete range filters (limit which tiles are affected):
    --col_range <start_col> <end_col>     (only with --insert_rows and --delete_rows)
    --row_range <start_row> <end_row>     (only with --insert_cols and --delete_cols)
      example: --insert_rows 5 10 --col_range 2 7 ==> insert 5 rows at row 10 only in columns 2-7


  Destination conflict policy (move/copy/merge only):
    --allow_overlap
      Proceed even if destination conflicts exist.
    --skip_overlap
      Skip only the tiles that would conflict in the destination.
    default (neither set):
      Abort before changing anything if any destination conflicts exist.

  Confirmation suppression:
    --force
      Skip interactive confirmations when tiles or CSS rules would be removed.


CSS OPTIONS

  --ignore_css
      When copying/merging tiles, do not create/merge tile-specific CSS rules for new tile ids.

  --cleanup_css
      When tiles are removed (delete/clear/crop/prune), attempt to remove tile-specific CSS rules for those tile ids.
      Prompts before removal unless --force is specified.

  Note: Tile id assignment when copying/merging:
        New tile ids are assigned sequentially starting at:
            1 + max(highest existing tile id, highest tile id referenced in customCSS)
        This prevents newly created tiles from accidentally reusing ids that still have orphan CSS rules.


DIAGNOSTICS

  --quiet                  Suppress the final one-line summary
  --verbose                Planned actions summary to STDERR
  --debug                  Per-tile action logs to STDERR


RC 21 adds hub direct import / output, undo
